Welcome to web services and APIs.
My name is Kisho Williams.
I'm sure by now you've heard the terms web services, APIs, and microservices.
The premise is the same.
Web services, APIs, and microservices
allow you to share data between two separate systems.
Essentially, integrate two totally different systems
so that data can flow seamlessly between the two.
Web services are designed to communicate with other programs
or applications rather than directly with users.
I will teach you how Java and more specifically the Spring framework which includes
Spring Boot makes it very easy for you to expose data in your systems to other systems,
integrate data from external systems into your systems,
and quickly build your own custom web services from scratch.
I will teach you about the fundamentals of web services, APIs,
and microservices, how they are similar and how they are different.
While learning the fundamentals,
you will explore Spring Boot for exposing data in your systems.
After providing an overview of web services and Spring Boot,
I will teach you about developing rest APIs and microservices.
I will then introduce you to a query language for APIs called
GraphQL and show you how to develop APIs using it.
Then, we will discuss securing your web services and API endpoints.
I will then show you how to consume existing web services in
the applications you develop to help speed up your delivery timeframe.
Next, I will show you how to document the web services
you create so that others can use them effectively.
Finally, we wrap up with me showing you how to efficiently conduct
unit and integration testing of your web services using common testing framework.
By the end of the course,
you will have developed and deployed your first web service.
So let's get started.